Greetings, and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2026 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference
Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
If anyone should require operator assistance, please press *0 on your telephone keypad.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Jonathan Nielsen, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief
Financial Officer; Alice Jolla, Chief Accounting Officer; and Brian Dafoe, Deputy General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary.
On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and
financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during
today's call and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial
measures.
More detailed outlook slides will be available on the Microsoft Investor Relations website
when we provide outlook commentary on today's call.
On this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP items.
The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior
to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding
the company's fourth quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events
have on the financial results.
All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of
last year unless otherwise noted.
We will also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for
assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate
fluctuations.
Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we will refer to the growth rate
only.
We will post our prepared remarks to our websites immediately following the call until the complete
transcript is available.
Today's call is being webcast live and recorded.
If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript,
and in any future use of the recording.
You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections,
or other statements about future events.
These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks
and uncertainties.
Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press
release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factor section
of our Form 10(k), Forms 10(q), and other reports and filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.
Thank you very much, Jonathan.
It was a very strong close to what was a record fiscal year for us.
All up, our annual revenue surpassed $331 billion, up 18 percent, Microsoft Cloud surpassed
$214 billion, up 27, and Azure surpassed $100 billion, up 41.
Going forward, we have two goals.
First, ensuring AI empowers every person, amplifying their agency and ambition.
And second, empowering every organization to build their own continuous learning loop
and ensuring that they don't outsource their core IP.
Now let's talk about how we're delivering this across our stack, starting with our AI
platform and infrastructure.
We added 31 new data centers across five continents this quarter, bringing the total to 88 this
year as we expand our footprint in response to accelerating demand.
We're also bringing capacity online faster than ever.
Over the last fiscal year, we have reduced docked to lifetimes for new GPUs in our largest
regions by nearly 50 percent.
All up, we added another gigawatt of capacity this quarter and remain on track to roughly
double our overall capacity in just two years.
We're also getting more from the infrastructure we already have by optimizing across silicon
systems and software.
For example, we increased the throughput for copilot workloads 4x since the start of the
year.
AI sovereignty is increasingly top of mind for our customers, and we are expanding our
offerings to meet that need.
Just last week, we announced a partnership with Mistral to bring its models to Microsoft
Sovereign Cloud, enabling customers to run them across public customer controlled and
fully disconnected environments.
We also continue to modernize our fleet with our own silicon innovation alongside the latest
from Nvidia and AMD.
Maya 200 continues to scale.
It delivers 30 percent better performance per dollar than the latest generation hardware
in our fleet and is now supporting both OpenAI and MAI models.
And we will be among the first cloud providers to deploy next generation rack scale AI infrastructure
based on AMD Helios and Nvidia Vera Rubin.
When it comes to running agents, CPUs are just as important as GPUs.
Our cobalt VMs are powering both our own first party workloads as well as workloads for customers
including Adobe, ARM, Elastic, OpenAI, Sprinkler and TomTom.
And by the end of this month, we expect to have our cobalt 200 racks in over 25 data
centers around the world as we rapidly expand capacity.
Now let me turn to the end-to-end platform we are building on this infrastructure to
run, govern and distribute apps and agents.
It starts with model choice.
Every customer wants the right model for each task based on quality, latency, cost and compliance.
We offer the broadest model catalog in the cloud with over 11,000 models including the
latest from OpenAI, Anthropic, Mistral, XAI as well as our own MAI family.
Since the start of the year, we have seen 5x increase in the number of customers building
with models from multiple providers.
Levi Strauss & Co. for example is using models from OpenAI and Anthropic on Foundry as it
brings more than 1,000 domain specific agents into a unified enterprise AI platform.
We are also accelerating our own model development.
We announced more than a dozen new models across image, voice, transcription, coding,
security, including our first reasoning model MAI thinking 1, all with cost efficient inference
at the core for the enterprise use cases.
We are co-designing these models with our silicon and we are seeing 40% better performance
per watt when running MAI models on Maya 200.
But more importantly, we are building a new model system where the harness, context, memory
and action space are separate from any one model family, thereby moving the frontier
on the cost to outcome curve.
But it is not just about cost, it also has the added benefit of business continuity and
resilience because every model is substitutable.
This is the system we are using in our products with great results.
For example, millions of developers have used MAI Code One Flash on GitHub co-pilot achieving
higher code acceptance rates and 10% lower median token usage while still having access
to frontier capabilities from OpenAI and Anthropic.
In Excel, MAI Code One Flash is delivering comparable quality to GPT-5.6 for the most
common tasks while operating at significantly lower costs.
In security, MAI Cyber One Flash achieves better performance than much larger mythos
model but at half the cost when combined with our multi-agent security harness.
More broadly across our model implementations, we are seeing significant efficiency gains
including 89% reduction of GPU costs in Dynamics 365 with MAI Voice 2 Flash and up to 84% reduced
GPU costs in PowerPoint with MAI Image 2.5.
And this system is available to any company to use as part of Foundry.
The next layer is the enterprise data and context.
The data estate is evolving from primarily supporting apps used by people to supporting
agents.
We are rapidly adopting our AI-optimized databases like Cosmos DB and PostgreSQL to give agents
fast secure access to real-time data and context they need for memory and retrieval.
PostgreSQL revenue was up 55% accelerating for the third consecutive quarter.
Also the number of PostgreSQL customers also using Foundry increased 80% as customers increasingly
choose it as the database for AI workloads.
And we are going further with Horizon DB, our new fully managed PostgreSQL service on
Azure which delivers three times the throughput of self-managed deployments.
When it comes to analytics, we are now have over 40,000 paid fabric customers up more
than 60% year over year.
And over 17,000 customers now use Foundry and Fabric up 60% year over year as enterprises
connect agents to real-time operational, analytical and unstructured data in Fabric.
This quarter we also introduced Rayfin, the agent first SDK that delivers a backend as
a service for building apps in Fabric.
More than 2,500 customers have already used Rayfin and is now powering the backends for
apps created with Repla 2.
On top of this data estate we are building an IQ layout that combines data
